In today's Report Card video,
friends, we'll review ICICI Lord Health
Insurance, which is part of the IICE Lord General
Insurance Company. We'll explore
when and how this company started. What significance does it hold today
in the Indian insurance industry?
We'll learn about the
plans ICICI Lord Health Insurance offers. What
is its portfolio of health insurance plans?
What does it indicate about claims, which is
crucial to understand? What is the company's claims process?
How can you file a cashless claim?
What is the reimbursement claim process? Is it
not too difficult? In what ways can you
file a claim? With what documents can you file this claim? And after thoroughly reviewing IIC
Lombard Health Insurance, I'll share
my opinion about this company. I'll
also share my shortcomings and positive aspects. So,
if you have an ICICI Lombard
Health Insurance policy and are
considering purchasing one, or are trying to
find the best health insurance company in India, then
Today's video
will help you a lot and will also make your decisions smart, so let's
not delay and
quickly start this video. This is the
story of 2001 when ICICI Bank
Limited and Fairfax Holdings Limited of Canada
together started IIC Lord General
Insurance Company. Perhaps
even they would not have imagined that
it would later become India's largest private sector
general insurance company.
Adding another chapter to its achievements,
ICICI Lombard General Insurance
Company acquired Indian AXA General
Insurance Company in a share swap deal in 2020
and today,
with a market share of 8.18%, IIC Lord General
Insurance Company has become India's largest
private sector general insurance company. The
hard work of 13,500 employees working in more than 300 branches has played a big role in achieving this position.
After the complete exit of Fairfax Holdings in 2019, 51.8% i.e.  With a stake of almost 52%,
AIA Bank Limited has become the company's largest
promoter, or stakeholder. Now,
since we're reviewing II Lombard's health
insurance business, let's first
review its portfolio of health insurance plans to see
how many types of
plans are available and what
choices you'll have if you're considering a II Lombard
health insurance policy.
Its most popular
plan is the II Lombard Elevate plan,
which was recently launched in 2024. The
II Lombard Elevate plan is a highly
flexible and personalized plan,
offering more than 20 add-ons that allow you to modify your
plan to suit your needs.
This plan also offers the option of an Infinite Sum Insured (
not just an Infinite Sum Insured). Additionally, it offers three
additional Infinity Benefits that
further enhance your coverage. The
plan is quite innovative and its  It
is also flexible. Apart from this, their popular
plan is Health Advantage, the
second version of which was recently updated.
Within this, you get good health insurance coverage for your family
individually as well.
Along with this, you can also cover 20 plus critical illnesses
under this plan. The third
plan that ICICI Lombard Health Insurance
can offer you is Max
Protect. Under Max Protect, along with
other health insurance coverages, you
can also choose the option of high sum insured,
which goes up to ₹ crore. If you
already have a health insurance policy
or you have your own corporate policy,
or you normally want to take a super top-up
plan, then
you can also review their plan called Health Booster,
which will provide you super top-
up coverage with an annual aggregate
deductible limit. If you want a personal
accidental coverage plan, then a
plan called Personal Protect is available in ICICI Lombard Health Insurance
now.  Let's talk about senior citizen
plans. If you want to buy
a senior citizen plan for your parents or parents-in-law, they have a
plan called Golden Shield. If you
review its terms and conditions,
you can also choose a senior citizen plan from
ICICI Lombard Health Insurance
Company. Now, suppose you have
purchased a health insurance plan from ICICI
Lombard Health Insurance or you
already have one. But the point is,
what is the company's track record in terms of claims? That is,
how has this company performed in the past in paying claims to its
policyholders?
For this, we are going to study and review some very important metrics.
However, the data available is
based on the latest annual report of IRDA.
I will tell you the first metric is the
claim settlement ratio. ICICI
Lombard's claim settlement ratio is 85. That
means, if the company has a total of 100
claims, it settles 85 claims. Is
this ratio correct?  Whether it's good or bad, an
average claim settlement ratio of 85 is
n't considered good. If it
increases slightly to 90, it would qualify as a good
claim settlement ratio.
However, a claim settlement ratio of 85 is a
bit low, in my opinion. Since we're talking about
good health insurance companies, a
good claim settlement ratio is
very important for their policyholders. The
next metric is the
income ratio. Income ratio refers to the amount of
premium the insurance company
collected and the amount of claims it returned to the
distributors in return. This ratio is quite good,
as an income claim ratio between 5055 and 775 would be considered
quite good. If their ratio is
above 75, then
this income settlement ratio is commendable. The
next important metric is the
insurance company's solvency margin.
Solvency margins determine whether the company has the funds to pay a claim. Now,
you know that the IRDA
benchmark for solvency margins, i.e., the minimum
slab, is 1.5 times. This
means that if an insurance company has a
liability of ₹1 as sum insured, then it should have one and
a half times that amount, i.e., ₹1.
What is the solvency margin of ICICI Lombard? It is 2.5 times. This means that for every
₹1 liability, it already has ₹1 as
assets and ₹1 as capital, which is a
very comfortable ratio. This
means that it will
not be short of money at the time of paying a claim. Now,
what is the overall financial stability of this company? Is this
company FinancialExpress
Rating Agencies, which does financial ratings of different companies
and then
gives them an outlook. So, the crystal rating outlook
of ICICI Lord General Insurance Company
is
stable and it has received a triple A rating, which
means that this insurance company  The company's
financial condition is absolutely fine,
and there
appears to be no financial problem. Kasal's
rating document lists three strengths for
this company. The first
strength is support from the promoter. India
's second-largest private sector bank
holds more than half of its stake,
so this is a very good thing for the company. Its
financial
effectiveness is healthy. There is
no shortage of capital,
as the solvency margin is already
2.5 times, which is
well above the benchmark. The company itself is quite
financially and financially safe.
We have understood the company's claims performance through data. However, it is also
very important to understand its claims process. We will
not discuss the destination directly. It is also very important to understand the various
processes we have to go through to get a claim. So, the
first
type of claim, the most common claim,
is cashless.  A cashless claim
means that when you visit a hospital
that is a network hospital
where ICICI Lombard and the hospital have a
cashless tie-up, if you
go to such a hospital, you won't have to pay cash directly in advance to the hospital after receiving cashless approval. The
insurance company will
pay your bills, and if there's any difference
left that isn't approved,
you'll have to pay that amount. This is quite a
relief. There are over 7,000
ICICI Lombard Health Insurance
cashless hospitals across India, which are network hospitals
where you can avail treatment. Although
this list is a bit short, it seems to me that if
you want cashless treatment,
you'll have to visit these panel hospitals. The
second type of claim is a
reimbursement claim. If you
go to a network hospital and your cashless
treatment isn't approved,
you'll have to file a reimbursement claim.
Or, if you get treatment at a non-network hospital,
you'll still have to
face the reimbursement claim process.  There are
two ways to do this. You
can also process this claim offline. The
documents related to your claim, which are
visible on the screen, are a
list of reimbursement claim documents. You must collect all these documents and
give them to your insurance agent.
You can submit them directly to the branch
or have them
couriered to the specified branch address. This
is the offline method, but with IIC Lord Health
Insurance, you can also submit them directly online.
You must scan all the documents and upload them to the IL Tech Care app.
You
can also upload them to the website,
where you will receive the claim status.
Now, the question arises: if we simply
upload them, we may not understand
how to upload them. So, don't
worry.
I've included a video of the entire uploading process
in the description. You can watch the full video by clicking
on the link for the online reimbursement claim process. You can see
how you can view each document one by one within the app.  The details of what needs to be
uploaded have been
explained in detail. Everyone
wants to avoid facing reimbursement claims;
we should get cashless treatment,
why do we have to pay from our own pockets?
That's why ICICI Lombard Health
Insurance has also given you the option of "Anyway Cashless."
You can avail cashless treatment even in non-network hospitals,
but there's
one problem: this process can only be processed after the hospital's consent,
which is not in our hands. Therefore,
its
applicability seems limited to me at the moment.
Now, friends, I'm going to share the
very important contact details of ICICI Lombard Health Insurance.
If you are associated with any policy or product of this company,
you should note these
down. Or if you are going to
join in the future, you may need these contact details.
First, let's
know their customer care number, i.e., their toll-free number. It's
quite simple; you may remember it.
18266 is also available if you want to put your point in writing
or send any communication back to you.  If you
need any help, you can also email their customer care email
ID, that is
customersupport@asi.l.com. You will see different options of Lord Health
Insurance's self app
WhatsApp2 help from
where you can avail any service.
This WhatsApp2 help number is 773828266.
Now, till here it is said that we
need some information, some service
related to the policy, some related to the claim,
but this is not always the case. Many
times it also happens that we want to avail the service
but we are not getting good service. There are
many problems in the claim,
money has been deducted from the claim, there is
no cooperation from the company, that is, the
claim is not being processed at all, the status of the claim is
not available, the money is getting delayed, the money is not being received, the
claim is not being approved.
If you face any kind of problem related to ICICI Lombard
Health Insurance, then you can
also complain to their Grievances Department.
In Grievances, you will get step by
step instructions on how to lodge your complaint.  To escalate your grievances,
I'm
providing you with a link to their grievance process. You don't have to search
anywhere else in the description of this video. Simply
go to the description and
click on the link next to "Grievances."
You'll see the entire process, including where to email,
where to speak, and where to voice your concerns.
Now, I've
learned so much about ICICI Lord Health Insurance,
understood all its plans, reviewed its data,
and also understood its claims process. Now,
in concluding the video, I'll share
my opinion on some of the strengths I saw in it. These are
its highlighted
features, but there are also some shortcomings.
I'd like to share those as well. Let's
first discuss the strengths, or what the
pros are. The
primary plus point of ICICI Lord Health Insurance is
that its tech-based services are quite advanced,
whether it's its mobile app, website,
or any integration with its other claims processes,
or technology
integration, seemed quite advanced to me.
If compared,  Compared to other insurance
companies, this company has made very good use of technology.
They have a self-
help chat bot. If you visit the website,
you'll see a chat board called Riya,
which stands for Responsive and
Intelligent Assistant. This helps you with
self-help services, which is
quite good. When the Elevate plan was launched,
the company also offered advisor-on-call services.
Their advisors explained the plan feature-
wise to you over video calls. They resolved all your questions, queries, and doubts through
one-on-one video calls,
which is a
great use of technology. Reimbursement claim
services are also available online, which
you can process through the Oil Tech Care app. So,
technology-wise, this company
seems to me to be more advanced than other companies. Another plus
point is that the financial company is quite good.
However,
this company should improve its claim settlement ratio slightly.
Furthermore, there's also an underlying claim ratio,
whether it's the solvency ratio or its overall performance.  The
financial strength is quite good,
which means this company has no shortage of money.
If they could improve their claims service a little,
their claim
settlement ratio would also improve.
What does an insurance company need when their
customers are happy, their policy holders
are happy and they also have a good amount of money, so
what could be better than this? The third
plus point is that I think the
III Lord Elevate plan was
a revolutionary product in itself regarding innovative plans. The company has
declared this and the
features in this plan also prove this.
After this, now most
insurance companies launch similar plans in
which the base product has
fewer features in the base policy and
more options are given as add-ons so that
this company can cater to the needs of maximum clients and maximum policy holders with a single plan. So, it is
also a very good thing that the plans are being
innovated as per the needs. Now
friends,
some shortcomings of ICICI Lombard Health Insurance have also been addressed.  Let's discuss this.
This is a very important feature, and
insurance companies themselves tout it, but no
one is happy to disclose its shortcomings. The first shortcoming
I noticed is their limited network
of cashless hospitals. Only
approximately 7,000
hospitals across India have cashless tie-ups. While
you may have a policy or are
considering one, you may find many hospitals in your city
that aren't affiliated with this company
in a cashless network.
This could be a problem. The
biggest advantage of a health insurance policy is that you do
n't have to pay upfront. If
you have to pay upfront, meaning you
can't get treatment at a cashless hospital
or you can't find a cashless hospital nearby,
half the benefit of your health
insurance policy is lost
because you'll have to arrange the money first.
Although the company has adopted the Anywhere Cashless
initiative, it wants
as many policyholders as possible to access
cashless services. However, the Anywhere
Cashless initiative
depends entirely on the hospital.  Now,
if a hospital does not want to provide cashless treatment,
then you will not get cashless treatment.
We do not have any choice to
challenge it. So, if you have
a policy from this company and are thinking of buying it, then
you should definitely check the cashless hospitals for all categories of treatments around them. The
second minus point is
regarding the claim settlement ratio. This is such a good
insurance company, they have so much money,
so they should also improve the claim settlement ratio.
They should focus on
where they are facing problems in their claim services,
where are the
claims problems, or why is this claim
settlement ratio decreasing.
They should also work on this because
ultimately, policy holders
buy the policy for the service of future claims. And if the data of that is
not favorable, is not good,
then I feel that from a policy holder's
point of view, this is not a good thing. The next minus
point is regarding the premium of their health insurance plans.
I feel that the plan is
a bit overpriced. Now, take the
example of the Elevate plan.  Take their latest
health insurance plan, which is selling quite well and is
quite flexible. The basic
variant, without any ads, is reasonably priced,
but its
features are limited. As we
add ads and design a reasonable plan, the
prices increase significantly. Now, who would want a
simple plan without significant coverage?
Everyone has to meet their needs, so as
ads are added, the
premiums increase rapidly. The prices should be
somewhat reasonable. The final
drawback I noticed about IIC Lombard
Health Insurance Company is that its
portfolio of plans is quite limited.
If a policyholder
wants to buy a policy, they have limited choices from which to choose. There's
no extensive list of plans,
however, the Elevate plan, which does
n't have a maximum age limit. You
can modify the plan significantly. However, if it does
n't meet someone's needs,
you have very limited choices.  It
remains that you can finalize any plan from the rest of the plans.
So friends,
in today's video we presented the report card of IIC Lord Health
Insurance to you.
What do you think about this video?
How did you like this video?
Can we include some more points in it? Then please tell us by commenting.
If you have any different experience related to IIC Lord Health Insurance, if you
want to give your input, then
you can use the comment section for that also.
In the next video,
we are preparing the report card of another health insurance company
for you. Till then,
stay connected with Insurance Ek
channel. I, Harvinder Singh, now
take your permission. I will get your permission in the next video. Till then, take
care of yourself,
stay happy and stay healthy. Jai Hind.